# experimental_assignment_2
The packages needed for Assignment 2 of the Experimental Robotics labarotary course are in the repository. The first assignment for this course, which is available at https://github.com/krishanttharun98/experimental assignment 1.git, is continued in this assignment. The objective of the previous project was to create a software architecture that would allow a surveillance robot to know where it is at all times. Identify any external stimuli as well, such as a low battery. The objective of this project is to create a workable simulation of the concepts created in the previous one. Under the beginning of this project, an universe in a gazebo created by professor Carmine Recchiuto with rooms and arco makers already existing.

# 1.Explanation of the goal of the assignment
The assignment is operating by showing how the robot navigates its environment using the move base goal that has been assigned to it. The robot's map is likewise created using the gmapping package, which also enables collision avoidance and obstacle avoidance. With the aid of Rviz, we can see how the robot constructs the map and sets the target path appropriately. Additionally, a local and global cost map is offered with the aid of the move base and gmapping packages. The robot also has a laser installed in the front of it to detect obstructions and create a map based on that information. Once inside the room or hallway, the robot turns its base to keep an eye on the area before moving on to the next target.

